Clarifying SecurityError in StorageManager.getDirectory (#39859)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/storagemanager/getdirectory/index.md

### Exceptions

- `SecurityError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : Thrown if the user agent is not able to map the requested directory to the local OPFS, due to factors such as:
    - **Storage or memory constraints** that prevent OPFS allocation.

>     - **Security policies**, including restrictions in non-secure contexts (e.g., non-HTTPS sessions).

Reviewer: Are there any other security policies here other than HTTPS? Because I don't see how that can be applicable here: if the document isn't HTTPS, this API just isn't available. So how could it throw in this case?

Reviewer: More to the point, it's also documented in this reference page:

<img width="736" alt="Screen Shot 2025-06-11 at 10 18 46 AM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/77189da1-c1b7-429f-83e9-d4a68f726ef2" />

>  If I remove this bullet, your concern is resolved?

This concern, yes, but my other questions stand.

Reviewer: > BTW, accidentally I found that some browser(s) allows OPFS under a HTTP session with localhost.

That's part of the definition of a secure context, see https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Security/Secure_Contexts#when_is_a_context_considered_secure:

> Locally-delivered resources such as those with http://127.0.0.1 URLs, http://localhost and http://*.localhost URLs (e.g., http://dev.whatever.localhost/), and file:// URLs are also considered to have been delivered securely.

Author: Thanks! Thus, the situation "the normal & private browsing modes of MS Edge allows, but the private browsing mode of Firefox prohibits getDirectory()" is consistent with their behaviors in HTTPS session.

>     - **Private browsing mode**, where OPFS access is commonly restricted by browsers to prevent persistent data storage.

Reviewer: Does this mean that the API doesn't work in private browsing mode? Our documentation on storage quotas and persistence (https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Storage_API/Storage_quotas_and_eviction_criteria#private_browsing) says that in PB mode data is not persisted after the session ends, but not that the API is itself disabled. Do you have a test case where we can try this out?

Author: My testcase was found during my experiments with SQLite3 WASM, https://gitlab.com/mpsuzuki/test-sqlite3-wasm. I would update this repository by this weekend, to add local https servers for test.

In my experiment, the Private Browsing mode on Google Chrome and Microsoft Edge allow the clients to write something to OPFS. On the other hand, the Private Browsing mode on Firefox and Apple Safari disallow the clients to write anything on OPFS.

Reviewer: It looks to me like, yes, Firefox throws when you call this method in PB mode. But in Safari, it looks like `navigator.storage` is just unavailable:

<img width="162" alt="Screen Shot 2025-06-11 at 10 40 13 AM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a76b8a40-df5e-4255-b7da-7b16a6cb16e3" />

So I'm not seeing this (from https://gitlab.com/mpsuzuki/test-sqlite3-wasm#known-limitations):

> For example, in the Private Browsing mode, ...Apple Safari returns "Unhandled Promise Rejection: UnknownError: The operation failed for an unknown transient reason (e.g. out of memory)".

Author: Just I've updated my testkit [test-sqlite3-wasm](https://gitlab.com/mpsuzuki/test-sqlite3-wasm), HTTPS & HTTP servers are added.

### Exceptions

- `SecurityError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}

>   - : Thrown if the user agent is not able to map the requested directory to the local OPFS, due to factors such as:
>     - **Storage or memory constraints** that prevent OPFS allocation.
>     - **Private browsing mode**, where OPFS access is commonly restricted by browsers to prevent persistent data storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : Thrown if the browser is not able to map the requested directory to the local OPFS, for example due to storage or memory constraints. Also thrown in some browsers if `getDirectory()` is called in private browsing mode.
- `UnknownError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}
  - : Thrown in some browsers if `getDirectory()` is called in private browsing mode.
```

maybe?
